---
layout: default
title: Customise preview and source handler
nav_order: 5
permalink: /get-started/customise-preview-and-source-handler
parent: Get Started
---

# Customise preview

There are two situations you want to use customised preview.

1. when the built-in preview drawer doesn't draw preview to your expectation, either due to css limitation or DOM hierarchy limitation.
2. when you want a totally different preview, for instance, customise "cursor" during DnD session.

DnD source `delegate` has an optional callback `dndPreview(model)` to draw customised preview. The input is the model generated by `dndModel()`, the output needs to be a DOM element (not attached to DOM tree yet).

In this tutorial, we use jQuery (not required) to create DOM element.

<iframe style="width: 100%; height: 420px; border: 2px solid #343a40; border-radius: 3px;" loading="lazy" src="https://gist.dumber.app/?gist=ac46f8bcdf481ddfa9c7a03646949890&open=src%2Fadd-box.js&open=src%2Fadd-box.html&open=src%2Fadd-money.js&open=src%2Fadd-money.html&open=src%2Fbox.js&open=src%2Fbox.html&open=src%2Fcontainer.js&open=src%2Fcontainer.html"></iframe>

For "Box" and "Money" buttons, we use `dndPreview()` to customise preview.

> In customised preview mode, `DndService` only sets `left` and `top` on the preview element, not `width` or `height`. You need to make sure your element has reasonable size.

> By default, preview is aligned to source element's top left corner.

You can centre your preview element around mouse position instead of aligning to source element top left corner. `dndService.addSource(this, {centerPreviewToMousePosition: true});`

This `centerPreviewToMousePosition` option works in both default preview and customised preview.

There is one more option you can pass to `addSource()`: `hideCursor`, which is to hide cursor during a DnD session.

> Combine option `centerPreviewToMousePosition` with `hideCursor`, you are essentially using `dndPreview()` to draw a cursor replacement! That's what happened behind "Money" button.

> You could do conditional customising. In `dndPreview()` callback, return a DOM element when you need to customise preview, or return `null`/`undefined` when you want to fall back to default preview.

## Style target element based on DnD state

In the above example code, both boxes and container are DnD targets. They got some style change during a DnD session.

Let's have a look on the implementation of box's property `dndCss`.

```js
@computedFrom('dnd', 'dnd.model', 'dnd.isProcessing', 'dnd.canDrop', 'dnd.isHoveringShallowly')
get dndCss() {
  if (!this.dnd) return '';
  const {model, isProcessing, canDrop, isHoveringShallowly} = this.dnd;
  if (!isProcessing) return '';
  // no style if moving item
  if (model.type === 'moveItem') return '';
  let css = '';
  if (canDrop) {
    css += 'can-drop';
  } else {
    css += 'can-not-drop';
  }
  if (isHoveringShallowly) css += ' shallow-hover';
  return css;
}
```

It observes `dnd.isProcessing`, `dnd.model`, `dnd.canDrop` and `dnd.isHoveringShallowly`, set the right css class for box element. Thanks for Aurelia, all the style changes are updated automatically during a DnD session.

## Optional source handler

You can pass a `handler` element to `addSource()` options. `handler` should be an DOM element within the source element, it only limits where the drag can start, doesn't affect how preview was drawn.

> Default preview still clones source element, not handler element.

> Preview still aligns to source element, not handler element.

## Prevent preview to show some parts

You can mark parts of the source element with class `bcx-dnd-preview-hide` to prevent the part showing up in preview. For instance, mark edit button to hide it in preview.

> The default style for `bcx-dnd-preview-hide` is `visibility: hidden;`, not `display: none;`, this makes sure the hidden part doesn't affect the layout geometry.

```css
.bcx-dnd-preview .bcx-dnd-preview-hide {
  visibility: hidden !important;
}
```

Here is an example for both source handler and bcx-dnd-preview-hide.

<iframe style="width: 100%; height: 420px; border: 2px solid #343a40; border-radius: 3px;" loading="lazy" src="https://gist.dumber.app/?gist=86107f1c3d045ff3fe7db1189961f681&open=src%2Fbox.js&open=src%2Fbox.html"></iframe>

That concludes all features of `aurelia2-dnd`.
